---
layout: post
title: 'Antorca Dev Release: 20170409-r15'
date: '2017-04-10T01:47:08+10:00'
tags:
- release
- alpha
- linux
- antorca
- debian
- announcement
tumblr_url: https://antorca.tumblr.com/post/159404542867/antorca-dev-release-20170409-r15
---
This new release includes various fixes to bring the current development branch back to the same feature-set as the old “Aberfeldy” development branch (i.e. there were some missing packages).

### Decision on Release Cycle

It has been decided that there will be 2 major releases a year. One in the middle of the year (either in June or July), and one at the end of the year (probably around December). The exact month or week of release will not be fixed, but the convention of two releases will be followed (if possible).

### Download

The build’s ISO image weighs in at 1.7GB. It’s available at the build’s folder in the project’s SourceForge page.

### What’s new

#### Added

- Arc themes for Firefox now bundled with Firefox.
- guvcview webcam viewer (take pictures or record videos).
- ClamAV and Gufw re-added.

#### Changed

- Generic application names in the menu change reverted.
- New menu icon that fits in with the Paper icon theme a little better.
- System font hinting now set to slight (previous configuration was just a bit too blurry and was tiring to the eyes).
- New default wallpaper.

#### Fixed

- Web browser and office suite installer doesn’t install the selected option (still in progress).

### Installation information

Install at your own risk! To install the image on to a hard disk, navigate through the start menu by going into the System category and selecting System Installer. When partitioning your disk for installation, set aside at least 256MB for an extended partition containing a linux-swap partition, whilst the main partition (which holds the system files and home folder) should be formatted as ext4 and could take up however much space you need it to.

> **Username:**	root
>
> **Password:**	antorca