---
layout: post
title: Antorca 5.0 Beta 1
date: '2017-07-27T06:38:53+10:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://antorca.tumblr.com/post/163482112907/antorca-50-beta-1
---
*Antorca isn’t dead!*

The first major release of Antorca has reached feature freeze! At this point, no new features will be added. Features may only be removed (or deferred to a future release) or changed at this point.

This new release includes rewritten web browser and office suite installers/selectors. These selectors allow users to choose from a list of browsers and office suites to install with one click. This means users don’t have to search through package managers for web browsers or GNOME Software (which doesn’t show non-open-source options).

Redshift has been added to allow you to control the temperature of your screen. This helps reduce eye strain as the day progresses.

### What’s new

> **NOTE:** This changelog includes changes from another, unreleased build (20170723-r17).

#### Added

- Redshift for screen temperature control (needs to be tested on native hardware)


- New artwork

#### Changed

- Changed default icon set to Moka

#### Fixed

- “Install a web browser” and “Install an office suite” have been rewritten - not only do they work now, but they handle errors a little better too!

### Version numbering

Antorca’s releases will start at version 5.0. Antorca will be starting at version 5.0 due to what I suppose could be called the “4.0 curse” where most of my projects don’t survive once they hit version 4 for various reasons. Also, Antorca is considered a spiritual successor of illume OS.

Future minor releases would be numbered as 5.1, 5.2, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, etc. Major releases would be numbered as 6.0, 7.0, etc. Due to an inconsistent year-round schedule, I would find it difficult to release new versions 
of Antorca on schedule (e.g. 17.08, 17.12, 18.08, etc).

### Release cycle revision

Unlike what I previously announced, Antorca will have a similar release cycle to illume OS. There will be 1 major release every year, with minor releases in between with bug fixes and updated packages.

### Download

You can get the latest build (2.1GB ISO image) from SourceForge.Installation informationInstall at your own risk! To install the image on to a hard disk, navigate through the start menu by going into the System category and selecting System Installer. When partitioning your disk for installation, set aside at least 256MB for an extended partition containing a linux-swap partition, whilst the main partition (which holds the system files and home folder) should be formatted as ext4 and could take up however much space you need it to.

> **Username:**	root
>
> **Password:**	antorca